README.md, before:

Plantar fasciitis treatment with ultrasonic shock waves
====================
A data-only living systematic review

**Clinical summary:** This meta-analysis suggests that the intervention is effective. However, meta-regression shows no dose-response relationship, blinding is difficult, and no registration numbers are found for the trials. GRADE methodology has not been applied to this review.

* [Reconciliation of conclusions with prior meta-analyses](../../tree/master/reconciliation-tables) 

**Methods overview:** This repository is an [openMetaAnalysis](https://openmetaanalysis.github.io/) that updates previously published meta-analyse(s).(1-4) All studies with at least 100 total patients are included. Newer studies included are listed in the references below. Rationale for newer trials excluded may be listed at the end of the references. 

This repository is a limited review and contains outcomes data only without PICO and Risk of Bias Tables.  This review does not include a GRADE Profile or Summary of Findings Table.

See [methods](http://openmetaanalysis.github.io/methods.html) for details.

**Results:** Details of the studies included are in the:

* [Reconciliation of studies included with other meta-analyses](../../tree/master/reconciliation-tables) 
* [Forest plots](../../tree/master/forest-plots) ([source data](../../tree/master/data))

The forest plot for the primary outcome is below. Additional [forest plots](../../tree/master/forest-plots) of secondary analyses may be available. 
![Principle results](https://github.com/openMetaAnalysis/Ultrasonic-shock-waves-for-plantar-fasciitis/blob/master/forest-plots/Outcome-Primary.png "Principle results")

The meta-regression for the primary outcome is below. Additional [metaregressions](../../tree/master/metaregression) of secondary analyses may be available. 
![Principle results](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openMetaAnalysis/Ultrasonic-shock-waves-for-plantar-fasciitis/master/metaregression/Outcome-Primary.png "Principle results")

References:
----------------------------------
### Systematic review(s)
####Most recent review at time of last revision of this repository
1. Yin MC, Ye J, Yao M, et al. Is extracorporeal shock wave therapy clinical efficacy for relief of chronic, recalcitrant plantar fasciitis? A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized placebo or active-treatment controlled trials. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2014 PMID: [24662810](http://pubmed.gov/24662810)
2. Aqil A, Siddiqui MR, Solan M, Redfern DJ, Gulati V, Cobb JP. Extracorporeal shock wave therapy is effective in treating chronic plantar fasciitis: a meta-analysis of RCTs. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2013 PMID: [23813184](http://pubmed.gov/23813184)
3. Dizon JN, Gonzalez-Suarez C, Zamora MT, Gambito ED. Effectiveness of extracorporeal shock wave therapy in chronic plantar fasciitis: a meta-analysis.  Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2013 PMID: [23552334](http://pubmed.gov/23552334)
4. Chang KV, Chen SY, Chen WS, Tu YK, Chien KL. Comparative effectiveness of focused shock wave therapy of different intensity levels and radial shock wave therapy for treating plantar fasciitis: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2012 PMID: [22421623](http://pubmed.gov/22421623)
5. Thomson CE, Crawford F, Murray GD. The effectiveness of extra corporeal shock wave therapy for plantar heel pain: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2005 PMID: [15847689](http://pubmed.gov/15847689)

### Randomized controlled trials
#### New trial(s) *not* included in the most recent review above
1. Gollwitzer H, Saxena A, DiDomenico LA, et al. Clinically relevant effectiveness of focused extracorporeal shock wave therapy in the treatment of chronic plantar fasciitis: a randomized, controlled multicenter study. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2015 PMID: [25948515](http://pubmed.gov/25948515)

#### Trials undergoing review
None

#### Cited by

This repository is cited by:

1. WikiDoc contributors. Plantar fasciitis. WikiDoc. Aug 17, 2015. Available at: http://www.wikidoc.org/index.php/Plantar_fasciitis_medical_therapy#Ultrasonic_shock_waves. Accessed Aug 17, 2015.

Commit message:

Added Katzap to undergoing review

README.md, after:

Plantar fasciitis treatment with ultrasonic shock waves
====================
A data-only living systematic review

**Clinical summary:** This meta-analysis suggests that the intervention is effective. However, meta-regression shows no dose-response relationship, blinding is difficult, and no registration numbers are found for the trials. GRADE methodology has not been applied to this review.

* [Reconciliation of conclusions with prior meta-analyses](../../tree/master/reconciliation-tables) 

**Methods overview:** This repository is an [openMetaAnalysis](https://openmetaanalysis.github.io/) that updates previously published meta-analyse(s).(1-4) All studies with at least 100 total patients are included. Newer studies included are listed in the references below. Rationale for newer trials excluded may be listed at the end of the references. 

This repository is a limited review and contains outcomes data only without PICO and Risk of Bias Tables.  This review does not include a GRADE Profile or Summary of Findings Table.

See [methods](http://openmetaanalysis.github.io/methods.html) for details.

**Results:** Details of the studies included are in the:

* [Reconciliation of studies included with other meta-analyses](../../tree/master/reconciliation-tables) 
* [Forest plots](../../tree/master/forest-plots) ([source data](../../tree/master/data))

The forest plot for the primary outcome is below. Additional [forest plots](../../tree/master/forest-plots) of secondary analyses may be available. 
![Principle results](https://github.com/openMetaAnalysis/Ultrasonic-shock-waves-for-plantar-fasciitis/blob/master/forest-plots/Outcome-Primary.png "Principle results")

The meta-regression for the primary outcome is below. Additional [metaregressions](../../tree/master/metaregression) of secondary analyses may be available. 
![Principle results](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openMetaAnalysis/Ultrasonic-shock-waves-for-plantar-fasciitis/master/metaregression/Outcome-Primary.png "Principle results")

References:
----------------------------------
### Systematic review(s)
#### Most recent review at time of last revision of this repository
1. Yin MC, Ye J, Yao M, et al. Is extracorporeal shock wave therapy clinical efficacy for relief of chronic, recalcitrant plantar fasciitis? A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized placebo or active-treatment controlled trials. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2014 PMID: [24662810](http://pubmed.gov/24662810)
2. Aqil A, Siddiqui MR, Solan M, Redfern DJ, Gulati V, Cobb JP. Extracorporeal shock wave therapy is effective in treating chronic plantar fasciitis: a meta-analysis of RCTs. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2013 PMID: [23813184](http://pubmed.gov/23813184)
3. Dizon JN, Gonzalez-Suarez C, Zamora MT, Gambito ED. Effectiveness of extracorporeal shock wave therapy in chronic plantar fasciitis: a meta-analysis.  Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2013 PMID: [23552334](http://pubmed.gov/23552334)
4. Chang KV, Chen SY, Chen WS, Tu YK, Chien KL. Comparative effectiveness of focused shock wave therapy of different intensity levels and radial shock wave therapy for treating plantar fasciitis: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2012 PMID: [22421623](http://pubmed.gov/22421623)
5. Thomson CE, Crawford F, Murray GD. The effectiveness of extra corporeal shock wave therapy for plantar heel pain: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2005 PMID: [15847689](http://pubmed.gov/15847689)

### Randomized controlled trials
#### New trial(s) *not* included in the most recent review above
1. Gollwitzer H, Saxena A, DiDomenico LA, et al. Clinically relevant effectiveness of focused extracorporeal shock wave therapy in the treatment of chronic plantar fasciitis: a randomized, controlled multicenter study. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2015 PMID: [25948515](http://pubmed.gov/25948515)

#### Trials undergoing review
1. Katzap Y, Haidukov M, Berland OM, Itzhak RB, Kalichman L. Additive Effect of Therapeutic Ultrasound in the Treatment of Plantar Fasciitis: A Randomized Controlled Trial. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 2018 Nov;48(11):847-855. doi: 10.2519/jospt.2018.8110. PMID: [29996734](http://pubmed.gov/29996734)

#### Cited by

This repository is cited by:

1. WikiDoc contributors. Plantar fasciitis. WikiDoc. Aug 17, 2015. Available at: http://www.wikidoc.org/index.php/Plantar_fasciitis_medical_therapy#Ultrasonic_shock_waves. Accessed Aug 17, 2015.
